(v091)=

# Avogadro 0.9.1

Avogadro 0.9.1 was released on 16 February 2009. This is the second of our final beta series before Avogadro 1.0.0 is released. Please help us by providing feedback. New beta releases are expected roughly once per month until the 1.0.0 release. You can [download this release here](https://sourceforge.net/project/showfiles.php?group_id=165310&package_id=187449).

What's New
----------

The following list includes some of the changes since [Avogadro 0.9.0](Avogadro 0.9.0 "wikilink"). This is mainly a bug fix release with a few new features implemented over the last month of development.



-   New CPack based NSIS installer for Windows.
-   Manifest issues of the 0.9.0 Windows installer resolved.
-   Several bugs causing crashes of Avogadro were resolved.



-   Combined configuration / preferences dialog added.



-   Ball and stick display type now supports transparency.
-   Re-enabled "Force" rendering, particularly for display of calculated vibrations
-   Rendering of computed vibrations from Gaussian, Q-Chem, MOPAC, and GAMESS-US using Open Babel

Known Issues & Limitations
--------------------------

This release is a beta release and is intended to gain feedback and interest in the project.

The code currently expects to be editing one 3D molecule per file with one coordinate set. This means:

-   Editing a multi-molecule file will only edit the first molecule. Saving will overwrite all records except the first.
-   Opening a SMILES file will not create 3D coordinates either (although you can insert SMILES as fragments into an Avogadro window)
-   Saving to a 2D format will not necessarily produce correct 2D stereochemistry.



-   Several builder features are not implemented, including:
    -   Protein and biomolecule builders
    -   Crystal structure builder
    -   Carbon Nanotube builder
    -   Z-matrix editor



-   Views cannot yet be removed into separate windows. In future releases, you will be able to have separate views of the same molecule in separate windows. Early support is in but disabled.
-   Export graphics will only save the current resolution in the window in bitmap form.
